>> Brian Holt: Question.
>> Speaker 2: So
you mentioned this could have an
application for using something like D3,
or data visualization stuff, so we need
to make some chart and have it stay
in our DOM even though React is constantly
destroying and replacing things.
So can you walk us through,
like is this el going to persist now and
we can slap a D3 chart into it and
it's not gonna be destroyed by React, or
how do we do that?
>> Brian Holt: Let's
see [COUGH] how I can show this to you.
So here's how I would do that.
Again, you don't have to
follow along with me here,
cuz I'm just making this
stuff out on the fly.
I'd make a new component call it
D3Wrapper.js or something like that.
I'd make a import React from react.
Class from D3Wrapper
extends Component.
One, you should definitely watch
Shirley Wu's talks on this.
She's the world expert
on integrating React and
D3.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
she has like an entire course that's
coming out on literally D3 plus
React.
>> Brian Holt: She's one of my favorite
teachers in the entire world, so
definitely, definitely catch that.
She's the magician,
like literally the Sorceress of D3.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so I would,
let's say that I'm making things up,
I don't know D3 very well.
Return div, and
here I would have the ref of el,
this.el = el, right, so
now I have a handle on this.
I would put this thing called
shouldComponentUpdate.
And I'm going to say return false.
This will make this component
never update, ever, right?
Which is what we want for
the wrapper for D3.
And then here in component,
>> Brian Holt: DidMount.
Cuz we have to do it after the component
mounts cuz that's when the el is actually
gonna exist.
I would say.
I'm, again, d3.init(this.el).
Whatever that looks like for d3.
>> Brian Holt: And
then again on componentWillUnmount.
You have to say like d3.destroy or
clean up or whatever it is, this.el.
Whatever cleanup that would
have to be done there.
Maybe I shouldn't use D3 cuz I'm sure I'm
getting everything wrong about D3, but
this is the general pattern.
Maybe to say this is like lib, or
something like that, some sort of library.
>> Brian Holt: So that's what this would
look like for basically any library.
More or less, the key part being here,
here's your ref, here's how you start
the application here in componentDidMount,
here's how you clean it up.
And then this shouldComponentUpdate,
return false is key,
this basically tells
React never update this.
Never destroy it,
never mess with this anymore.
And time that React tries to rerender it,
it's going to say, hey, I don't need to
update it, stop looking, right?
>> Speaker 2: We also have to have
shouldComponentUpdate false
on any parents of that so
that those are also not deleted?
>> Brian Holt: Well,
if you just stop rendering something,
it's going to stop rendering it.
So this always would have to be rendered,
right?
You'd have to take care to make
sure that our parent component
would not be destroyed but
this itself would never update.
>> Brian Holt: But the danger of this now,
the shouldComponentUpdate return false,
if I was keeping track of state in here,
if I updated state it would re-render.
>> Brian Holt: All
right?
>> Brian Holt: So
that's how you would do that.